I love you, I love you, I love you.
I love you, I love you.
I love you.
Thank you.
I'm going on my donkey ride.
I'm yellow and I'm green.
I'm blue.
Go on, go on.
I was sent to Benna.
ape
A 1650 advertisement for a spinning wheel.
For a spinning wheel on earth.
Pulled by my beautiful coloured yellow gold.
Or the spinning wheel.
It's the best one there is.
A 1650 advertisement for a spinning wheel.
I'm going to say that last year when they asked me to speak and I talked about money.
I thought you all should know that we did get to win at the weekend for Ireland.
And we earned $21,000 with some of their money.
Thank you for your time.
We do appreciate you so much.
You're in and you're out. We've been so supportive.
And you listen to the words. I think you're really so sensitive.
All these people who really listen to the words.
I know that's what you're listening to.
Because you love language.
And that's a beautiful thing.
I love you. I love you.
I love you.
The sun whose beams were strong,
a heart which had no beholder,
and yours with beauty and comfort
have made my voice the bolder.
Their beauty, beauty and beauty
are the shyness I see.
There will never ever be
my heart.
Emily.
Thank you.
Now,
I just want to mention also that in that discussion on inventing new worlds, which I, the speech I gave in Nice, I pointed out that there's two things that we do in science fiction, that
that we give options on the future. You know, we have stories in which we look at different options, different ways that things could have gone, and we give the person a look at it, the reader a look at it, so that he doesn't have to go through it, except in reading it in three hours, instead of living it for 70 years, when somebody, some power group that does it and will refuse to learn the law of the future.
And so, we have a lesson that it isn't working. You know, I mean, they just persist in it and do it, and so on. Now, the other one is that we do what we invent a new planet with an ecology of its own and everything, and man learns how to live there by some kind of a system.
We have an example, Ring World by Larry Niven, and his forthcoming book is Ring World Engineers, which is being highly publicized. I received a proof copy about a month ago, and I just didn't have time to read it at that time, and I called Holt Redfrew when I was in New York, and I said, do you still want a, do you still want a
little bit of the blurb about it from me when I get back to Los Angeles, and they said yes. Even if we can't use it on the cover, we'll use it somewhere in our publicity, so they're really going to promote that book. Be prepared. Ring World Engineers is going to be publicized and advertised book.
The, it just, as another aside, so to speak, in my opinion, the future of science, one of the futures of science, lies in the new particles. These particles that are being discovered and have not yet been isolated enough for them to be streams of them created, you know, that are used, that can be used as beams or something.
And you get, when we get some of those particles in sufficient quantity under control, there's going to be some strange new developments that I think will compare to what happens, happened with the laser beam, so on.
Now, we come to this, what is this business of stimulating fantasy done to the people who read and write science fiction? I have to, the best person for me to look at has been myself, naturally.
The, I look at the kind of things that I have done, I went, first of all, I learned writing, learned to write systematically. I learned to write by a system. I found a, I didn't create the method. I merely learned a method that was a system method, and thereafter I was a craftsman.
I still get novels from writers who tell me that they have written their novel in three weeks. Well, you, this flabbergasts me because it takes me three weeks or more just to go over a story once I have finished it, to go over it line by line by line to make sure that it's okay.
When I wrote The Violent Man, I, it came out at 200,000 words, a total nightmare, I can tell you that. 200,000 words took me four years to write that book. It's a non-science fiction book.
So I decided it's too long and I cut 40,000 words out by reading each paragraph and stroking out words and phrases and sentences, and then doing the same with the next paragraph and so on down the line until 40,000, until it was reduced to 160,000 words.
And I thought I will never write another novel of 160,000 words, but it seems to have gone on, although it was badly handled at the beginning. The pocketbook reissued it next last year, and they seem to be quite willing to continue it.
By the way, between La Crosse and Conclave, I went to New York. My purpose was to see what is going on in the New York publishing field, because you can't really tell it clearly from Los Angeles.
See, these are all in people there in New York. They know each other. How can anybody ever break into such a field? I don't know. It probably happened because it happened to me. Just imagine, there I was in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, way back in the 1930s, and I sent a science fiction story in 1939, somewhere after July 1939, to a magazine called Astounding.
And I get a check. If you've read Paul's account of that period of time, I couldn't have happened with any other magazine of science fiction magazine in New York at that time, because they were in groups.
The editors and writers, the editors bought from their writer friends. There's something of that order. It was hard to break into. But I sent it to the right place, and that's what happened.
Now, the same thing happened earlier when I sent stories to Big Fadden Publications True Story magazine. They bought my first story.
And so there is, the publisher wants to make money. He is not in on these editorial writer conspiracies to buy in and in from an in group. The publisher is in there to get the best thing out that he can, and to get the most buyers for his magazine book, and so on.
But you cannot escape from the thought that the best place to live if you're a writer is New York. Bear this in mind, if you really decide to do it, you're a short distance away.
Don't just commute, go there for a short time, and stay there, and get acquainted, do the, find out what's going on, and impress a few people with what a good personality you have.
So, well, my, the future of the individual, of the human person, I evolved two systems on a realistic basis for dealing with the problems of human beings, which I won't go into here.
But they were, they took quite a while to do, and then I observed something else. In other words, it takes me a long time, but this, I'm talking now about something that happened automatically.
Over here, I was stimulating the fantasizing side, and over here, I was looking at the world, at people, at things, at, at, at, where things were, at, at solutions that other people had found, and finding different, slightly variations.
Of those, or different, different solutions. And in 1973, I took my wife on a trip through Canada. The reason for the trip was that I wanted to, my, the, the, her doctors had told me she was a terminal case, and I wanted her to see her family.
You make a last visit to all the members of her family. Without, she didn't know that she was a terminal case. She was in good shape for a while at that time. Now, but I, what I had been telling her for some years was that I wanted to make such a trip through Canada for another reason.
I had observed that people who go back to high school reunions after 40 years, a percentage of them die within the year. I wanted to test that out. I wanted to go back and see a number of people whom I had not seen for over 40 years.
And I wanted to see what happened to me, and what I thought while I was looking at them, and so on. And this was what I told her was the real purpose of the trip, whereas it was really something I was not going to do, what, to, to, to veil the purpose which was for her to visit her family.
So, nonetheless, I did all these things because that's what I had said we were going to do. And I visited my two childhood homes. One in a, in a small town or village called Neville, Saskatchewan, Canada, where I'd spent the first 10 years of my life.
And I went to the, to the house where we had lived the last four years, and it was in better condition than when we left it. Now, how can that be? There it stood, beautiful, rehabilitated in some way, evidently made a wonderfully good wood, you know, to have survived that long.
And then I went to the town of Morden, Manitoba, Canada, where we had lived in a wonderful house. I mean, it was really a, my father, who was an attorney, had somehow got hold of a stone house that had been built by a Scottish MD who had duplicated a Scottish palace.
I mean, he made it a little smaller, you know, I mean, but, but it had a, it had a turret and, you know, it was three stories and it stood there and so on. And we lived in that colossal place and it was kind of chilly upstairs because of those big rooms and the big hallways and they were, and by the way, the MD passed away and that, and the house fell into the hands for taxes of the, of the town.
And my father somehow got hold of it and there's where we lived and during that period of time as we were in that town. Well, it was still standing. So I took pictures of that and I went to, I mean, I'm just now talking about the scenes.
And then I went, I went and talked briefly to two cousins whom I had not seen for 40 years. Now that seems incredible, but when you move to the United States, it's as if you disappear. So, so, for Canadians, I mean, you vanish from the Canadian scene.
And so anyway, one of these cousins, I had come to my hotel room in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was two years older than me and he had, the last time I'd seen him, he was 17 and I was 15, whatever that, I mean, something like that. Well, I noticed that the thing that happened as I looked and as I looked at him standing there just when I opened the door was that first of all, he reminded me of his father.
And so on. And I kept doing a rapid shifting in my mind over the way he had looked and the way he looked now, the way he had looked, the way he looked, I mean, a rapid shift back and forth like that. So I noticed that.
And at a later time, I did the same thing with a cousin. I visited her in the place where she worked. She said, she said to me, your father's sister and your father's stepson or half sister lives just down the street. This is in Swiftern, Saskatchewan, Canada.
I lived just down the street. Would you like to go and see them? And I said, if they're still speaking to me two or three years from now, yes. But I mean, then I will see them then, but not now because I felt as if I cannot afford to see too many. I didn't say this. I didn't explain what I was doing.
These two women had been very good to me, but I hadn't seen them for over 40 years. There was a lot of... The theory would be that there's a lot of trauma in those early years, a lot of childhood illnesses that could be stirred up, you know, and that kind of thing. That was my theory.
And just to shorten this thing somewhat, when I went home, I started to do my dream therapy again and it wouldn't work. I wanted to do it on my childhood, on these childhoods. It wouldn't work. I was sick every morning that I tried it. Every morning I woke up sick.
So I abandoned it and I haven't done it since. That's 73. I'm going to start again when I get back to Los Angeles because I have completed all my book contracts and I handed the last book over to my agent the day before I left Los Angeles.
I was long overdue because when my wife passed away, everything... I had four book contracts and I added one to it foolishly in the interim there. And they were overdue, overdue, overdue. One was due in October 1975 and I delivered it last month.
So, and the others were earlier contracts and one of them was Renaissance. Came out from Parking Book recently. Another one is coming out in February 1980 from Doubleday. I called it...
The universe ended 1704 AD and they're calling it the Cosmic Encounter.
Now, the reason I chose 1704 AD for the universe to end is that it was the time of Queen Anne.
Now, my wife was fascinated by Queen Anne because Anne was... she considered the best English Queen that ever lived. That was her feeling. I used to hear... Queen Anne came over the breakfast table to me off and on for years.
My wife read more and more of this book about her and so on. What Anne did finally, there were many wars going on that the British were constantly involved in. One day she just said bring all the armies back from Europe to hack with all of them.
I don't want to have any more wars and these macho British males of that period were stunned by the... but she had the power and they brought them back to their... they were totally disgraced by and were glad when she finally passed away so they could resume all those wars.
But Anne had this... that she did that and nobody else ever... Elizabeth didn't dare to do that. She never thought of breaking off anything on that. She wouldn't have dared to oppose those great men.
I mean some of these men that were... you know there was a word for the brilliant Englishman around these queens. The golden lads. You know it was really... anyway that was an interesting period of history to me because I got it over the breakfast table for so long that I utilized it as the place where the universe collapsed into.
So now... and because I now knew a lot about it and I only had to make certain studies to verify detail you see. So now... I'm just telling you these things to show where my reality went. You know what this... I got stimulated. I'm the... I've got to be a personal example because I've stimulated my brain on the fantasy side as much as anybody in the world.
It's got to be true because I've written approximately 50 books. You know? And you cannot do it... you cannot do it more than that. Well, Isaac Asimov of course. But then you know what Isaac is doing. Science fiction and then a science article. Science fiction and then a science article.
He's been bouncing back and forth and in the course of all this he has maintained his sense of humor shall we say. And he has become one of the world's greatest speakers and if there's such a thing as past lives Isaac is the reincarnation of Adolf Hitler as a speaker.
Now look, now look, that's... I'm sorry to say it that way but never have I heard a man speak so vibrantly. I mean except... except Adolf Hitler. As a speaker I said. And not as a... not as a person because Isaac is a great man. Now. But as a speaker he can reach... he doesn't need this microphone.
He doesn't need this microphone even if this hall was you know another 400 yards. Have you heard him speak? I mean when he really lets himself go it's incredible isn't it? So I've never heard anybody else like that except mind you some of those early English orators. Lloyd George.
They spoke in that... because of course they had no microphones like this. They spoke in this fashion you know that they were vibrant speakers and they extend. I don't know how they do it. And retain their... you know are able to know what they're saying.
Because I said to Isaac in Toronto I said, Isaac I said you... I listened to you and by golly not only were you delivering your talk in that wonderful fashion I said but you even made sense.
He says I don't know whether I like that or not. I said it's praise. It's praise I said because I was greatly impressed. Now. A few years ago after I finished my exercise experiment I got interested in languages.
And as usual presently I did it professionally. I did something professional about it. But my first of all I just got interested in languages in connection with... I bought tapes and records and transformed them to a... finally to a cassette that I could take out with me when I was walking my dog for 40 minutes.
And that was... they weren't right for what I wanted. So I invented a new method of learning languages. It took me a while. It... a method which I've been able to copyright. I'm the only person in the United States who has been able to copyright a language system.
They don't ordinarily allow a copyright on language because after all the... as they wrote me first they said anybody who can speak a language can speak a language. You know I mean it's not a... it's not a special art or anything like that.
So I pointed out to them the difference and presently they allowed me to copyright my tapes. So just tell you what I... just consider that. Over here all this fantasizing, building up the reality side and I'm just looking at the language.
Business. You know looking... what is it... what is it I'm learning here? I was in no hurry. You know the first ad I put in for... I discovered I couldn't use these tapes. It took too long to transform them. You know the... what I wanted.
So I put an ad in the Los Angeles Times which read, writer would like for non-commercial taping and that's what it really meant at that time. People who speak Frisian, Flemish, Low German, Basque, Walloon, Yiddish, Radio Romantic.
And a couple of others. And about nine o'clock on Sunday I got an answer from a Frisian woman who said that she and her sister had kept the language alive from the time they got to the U.S. around age 20 by speaking to each other, speaking it to each other on the phone.
At... we have the... about noon of part-time Flemish professor at USC called. Oh he said, we'll pay ten dollars an hour. Pardon me. That's included in the ad. We'll pay ten dollars an hour.
At four o'clock an architect who spoke Low German called and I made an appointment with him. At ten o'clock at night the phone rang again and there was a man's voice and he said, I've been in this country for eight years.
He said, I've never even seen the word Radio Romantic before here. He says, I speak the full-on version of Radio Romantic. I said, don't hang up. Just imagine out there in that vast city of Los Angeles, somebody at the end of a phone line who had taken the trouble to call me.
Anyway, I discovered later that language people do move because I was just recording this on some pretty good home equipment except for one thing. There's essentially no cars pass where I live except when I'm recording.
Airplanes do not go over very often except when I'm recording. It was an amazing set of coincidences and so I'd hear this roaring car go by on my tapes and I thought, boy, I better go to the professional studio.
But in the, what my system is, let me just tell you what I worked out there with my dog up in those hills of Hollywood, a language system like this. It's so simple you would think that it could have been devised before except that I'm sure that the people who teach languages normally are native speakers who are very realistic about it.
They grind it into you, rather than think about what a solution should be. They've been doing this for centuries.
Now, German, English, German, English, German, English, 15 sentences and then only the German as an immediate test on the conversation tape.
On side two, I mean this goes on and on and right near the end I give the number system and the alphabet because you really should know what those are.
And then on side two, the same sentences on side one with every word spelled aloud and a literal translation. And that's where I discovered what one of the problems is. Getting a literal translation out of a native speaker is not easy.
He says, it doesn't make sense that way. And in spite of everything, in spite of the fact that I finally persuaded them to do it, I'm sitting there listening to the recording in the studio and I hear my native speakers say seven words and give me a three-word English translation and I wave at the engineer stop.
And so in spite of my attempts, etc., I say, well now, sir, you spoke seven words in your own language and only three in English. He's, well, it doesn't make sense. I said, look, we've been over that. We've been over that before.
You know, it's, you come to those kind of sentences where you say, it nothing now means here. You know, I mean, that's the way it is in the, say it isn't another language. And it means nothing here. You know, something like that.
So those are the, but you should really know those sentences if you're going to learn a language. You know what, you should know those words if you're going to learn a language. You can go over side one again and then sort of remember what those words are and then you learn them.
I discovered it took about three weeks or 40 minutes a day to learn to get one of those languages in my ears without attempting to speak them.
There's another thing I observed, which I'm sure has not been observed. I mean, I know it has not been observed that there are two types of persons in the world in terms of language learning.
The mimic type, the mimic actor type. And of course everybody has observed that this person can speak a sentence in a foreign language without ever knowing, without knowing what it means.
He can speak it exactly and precisely. But there's a whole set of reality in what happens with him too because I talked to a number of such persons who had learned foreign languages and then used them on the occasion, which is typical, which is the American way.
I mean, we don't have much chance to use foreign languages. This man had occasion to go to Mexico City about every three or four months.
And when he arrived in Mexico City, I'm talking now about a former actor who was a mimic type, who spoke, you know, so on.
When he arrived in Mexico City, he spoke Spanish. He called a taxi, he did this and he did that, spoke all these words and so on.
And when they spoke back to him, he couldn't understand the word they said.
It took him two or three days before that hearing ability returns to the mimic type of person. You know, a lot of language that he know.
So, but the other type, the 95% of us who are those dullards in the classes who do the job and after, who go through classes and learn our languages sufficiently so that we pass the examinations and then leave and never use it again.
That's the 95%. That is the person who should learn the language only in his ears and not try to speak it.
But there is no connection between the ears and the voice box in that direction. There is no connection.
You cannot, after you have learned one of those tapes, you know, all the stuff in one of those tapes so that when you recognize every word in it, or, well, I never, I never worried about recognize every word.
I learned about, from between 95% and 98% was sufficient for me.
Otherwise, I would never have gone on, been able to go on to the next tape, you see, because there's always something that doesn't stick with you.
So, you try, somebody says to you, well, what is the word as one person did? What is the word for thank you in Norwegian?
And I say, I have the faintest idea. I said, but I thought you told me that you'd listen to some Norwegian tapes. Yes, that's true.
I said, but I also told you that I don't speak the language, but not even thank you.
So, the next morning I hadn't listened to the Norwegian tape for some years. I took it out and recognized 95% of it.
And I discovered then that the word for thank you in Norwegian is tak, T-A-K.
So, I've never forgotten that. But now, my second tape is a vocabulary tape.
I'll come to the good part of this in a few more. The second tape is a vocabulary tape whereby I just spell the word, pronounce it, and translate it.
And then do the test every 15 words or so, only the German and so on and on through a two hour tape.
It takes a two hour tape, add about 1400 words to your vocabulary.
And when you know, when you recognize all of those words during the test, you're in pretty good shape so far as the meaning of those words, because you can spell them.
And when you can spell a word in your ears, you can read it. You read it automatically at that point.
Now, I don't know why there's a connection between the ears and the eyes and none between the ears and the voice of that 95% of us poor non-mimic types, but that's the thing that I have observed.
Now, I put one small ad about this. Since I started to do, since I'm, as I say, always professional, I was not that concerned about doing anything.
I hired a part-time secretary, put one small ad in one magazine, and there is a certain response from that over the years, which has gotten me a feedback.
And among the people who wrote me were the people who put out the audio forum tapes.
That was formally one other company, but then there was a second company that has taken it over.
The Jeffrey Norton Publishers Incorporated in New York City, and when I was in New York this past week, I went over to see them.
He called me long distance and asked me to come and see him, and they had already put four of my sets of tapes in their catalog, and he says,
we are getting orders like we have seldom gotten on this, on the way we are describing these tapes.
So I went over there and it is a cassette nightmare over at Jeffrey Norton Publishers Inc.
That is what they are publishers of. They published 3300 different educational tapes, including the audio forum tapes, which is the language system of the State Department.
Now I got a hold of, when they first contacted me, I got a hold of the high German version. They call it the German.
They are not distinguished between all those German dialects.
By the way, the architect who spoke low German said to me that low German was in the 12th and 13th century, the commercial language of the North Sea, that is of the Hansianic League.
Now that was an interesting thought to me. I had not thought about that.
So I concentrated a little bit more on low German than on other languages.
About a year ago when my agent had a visitor from Sweden, a publisher came, and my agent invited a number of writers to have dinner with this publisher.
At the end of the meal I said to this publisher, Kauß du Platt Ditzrede, can you low German speak?
And, yo, yes, Obereksei Platt Duc. He pronounced the name of the language differently.
Now, I said dialects within dialects.
But it's interesting that a Swedish publisher living in Stockholm would have this as a sub-language sitting there after all these hundreds of years.
How would he have learned, you know, what would have been the motivation for learning that language?
Now I don't know how true this is of the whole North Sea because the Hansianic League went all the way up into Russia, you know, up into those Russian ports.
So it would be interesting.
And by the way, low German is similar to Yiddish, which is not surprising in view of the fact that, you know, the Jewish people have a very commercial instinct, etc.
And they would have been in all those sea ports doing their business too.
And it could be that that's where Yiddish started.
I wouldn't be totally surprised that some variation of Yiddish came out of that period of time.
I know nothing about the history of Yiddish, I must say, though.
So, now, anyway, here I am.
I'm going to get royalty. It's just as if I've written another book, another science fiction book.
I'm going to get royalties on languages, on a new language system.
I have about, in fact, I have 65 two-hour masters, two-hour language masters.
My theory is that there are over 200 languages in the Los Angeles area, and I'm going to find them all.
When I get, you see, I've now finished my book contract, and I'm going to go to Radio Station KPFK.
And back in, which is a Pacific Corporation, it's a sort of a public-supported station.
It's a radio station.
And I'm going to ask them if I can go on the air and look for these languages.
It should be an interesting experiment, and as a matter of fact, one of the great linguists that I met as a result of putting that little ad in that one magazine
is a professor of comparative linguistics, born in Vienna, speaks 20 languages fluently,
and a number of other languages. He said, oh, I can get along in the streets, he says.
But he wouldn't record them for me, because he didn't know them the way you have to know a language in it, so that kind of thing.
But I don't mean he recorded all these languages for me, because I already had some before I ever met him, et cetera.
But he can explain a language.
He can, in other words, now he does have, there's the Japanese tapes that he made for me,
an American professor teaching in a Japanese university ordered these tapes, and he wrote me,
he said, you'll be interested to know what my educated Japanese wife thought of these tapes.
She thinks that what you have there is that the speaker, that the translator, the person who's speaking the language,
is a Japanese American who speaks a very elegant Japanese, but he has a few old-fashioned words that are no longer used in the Japanese current language.
And the, well, as a matter of fact, this professor had been in Japan about 15 years before he recorded those tapes,
and he was back at the time that I got the letter, he was in Japan translating scientific papers for a Japanese university laboratory
from eight European languages into Japanese.
So he was now getting current with the current usage of certain words which were missing.
And a Chinese woman, get this, a Chinese woman listened to his Chinese tapes.
Chinese tapes, she says, he speaks the language very fluently.
You know, I mean, this was the only one where there was a slight criticism that counted with me.
He speaks the language very fluently, he knows the structure and grammar better than I do, she said.
And, but it's as if an Englishman who has been living in America for many years,
but still has a slight English flavor in his voice, speaking Chinese.
But what he can do, he knows the United Nations way of spelling the words,
he knows the way of that person who did that study of Chinese back in 1880,
and he knows the current government, you know, the current Chinese spelling method.
Where did he learn all this?
I mean, it's an amazing talent that this person had.
Well, anyway, I'm just saying I ran into this man, and he's leaving for Europe to retire.
He's 70 years of age, still looks 50, but he's going back to Europe next this coming spring,
and he thinks he's going to retire to one of the Mediterranean islands because they're so beautiful, you know, that kind of thing.
So, now, where am I?
Well, I don't know whether I have his permission to give his name.
I think I better not, under those circumstances.
I mean, he was born in Vienna, and one of the things that, as soon as I discovered that, I said,
do you speak Vietnamese German by any chance?
And he said, yes.
I said, well, you know, Vienna, being such an old, wonderful historical city,
why don't we record three two-hour Vietnamese German tapes and record the Vietnamese language which we did?
So, I've got that one.
So, the, back in 1964, the reason I, I'm going to go to KPFK, back in 1964,
KPFK asked me to give a number of talks on their station on my current ideas, which is, you know, about things.
And it just so happened that I had a number of current ideas at that time, of an original time.
I was just at that time writing or preparing, considering what were the qualities you had to have to make and keep money.
And the reason I was doing that was because three individuals that I had gone to school with in Canada had all got rich there.
And I always thought I was the smartest person to graduate from that.
And so I thought, well, I knew them when.
I knew these characters when and they must have had shown those qualities at that time.
So over a period of about three years, I thought, now what could this be?
And I finally thought of this thing and this thing and this thing.
And I gave five talks of my 12 final qualities that, on KPFK and ask for feedback, ask for people's opinions, you know, to,
I wanted feedback from it.
And I got very interesting comments.
Then I gave eight talks on my systematic thought about women, which I had also devised over the, as a result of writing a novel called The Violent Man.
In The Violent Man, I described the behavior of two women without understanding what those women were up to.
I said to, and in fact, for three years, I went around to all together about 400 persons, men and women.
I said, what were those women doing?
How would you explain what those women did?
Because that's out of life.
I saw that happen in life.
I actually saw those two women do that, you know, two different women do that.
Now what were they doing?
So most women professed, they had the faintest idea what women were up to.
You know, only one high school teacher of language said to me, women are pure creatures who have to live in a world of men.
And, by the way, that wasn't too bad an answer because basically the system that I finally devised did take into account
the fact that women have developed four normal ways of four normal conditions that they go into
in relation to maintaining status with men.
And that's got to have a long history, you know, I mean a tremendous history behind it, evolutionary wise.
So then I gave five talks on my violent male, the male that I describe in The Violent Man.
Now the only thing that my publisher, the hardcover publisher for Arstras, had against my novel The Violent Man
when they published it, the editor wrote me, he was very concerned, he said,
it is a dangerous thing for a writer to try to teach anybody anything in a novel.
You know, it should not be an obvious statement about a new system.
And he said, we'll publish it. I said, I don't know how to change that.
I said, because this is exactly what it is.
So he says, we'll publish it.
And the only thing that went wrong with the hardcover edition was that the salespeople had never heard of me.
And so they placed, let's say, five books in New York City, ten books in Los Angeles
because ten of my friends ordered them in advance.
And that was all the books that they were in Los Angeles.
While the promotion department had hired a promotion person in Los Angeles area
who put me on television, on radio, got me talks and so on,
all to promote this book and there wasn't a single book available for three months.
So that was death for that hardcover.
But it then went to paperback at Avon and went through seven printings and the pocketbook has reassured it.
So now, but I was glad that I was given that opportunity to explain these three different sets of ideas on KPFK,
way back there.
And, you know, they invited writers to do these kind of things, which is very interesting.
Naturally, we were not paid, but I'm going to try to do the same thing with finding these languages, the rest of these languages.
There must be every Indian language in the United States, spoken in Los Angeles.
Somebody goes home and he speaks to his family.
He speaks the language from one of the Indian backgrounds.
And the same way with all of the dialects that have come to this country, those dialects are spoken.
And I'm going to record them all.
Now, that's quite a, that's quite a, I've spent $40,000 up to now, approximately.
So you can see that it's quite an investment in terms of, let's say, research.
But, apparently, now it is going to pay off because Jeffrey Norton, when I went up to his office, he had a drink for me and we sat and talked for about two hours.
His girlfriend from McGraw Hill Publishing Company came in and we sat and talked for a little longer.
And then I said, well, I better let you two people go back, go to, they were going to go to dinner.
And I said, you better let them go to dinner.
And I called up Norm and Spinrad and said, I am free.
Can you still come over?
Are you still, are you, he was not feeling well.
Can you still come over and have dinner with me?
He had had dinner, but he hadn't had any dessert.
So he came over and he had a salad and a dessert and coffee and we talked until 11 o'clock at night.
So these are some of the things that have happened to me in this world.
And it's interesting to me that when, after I listened to that talk in Nice, by that author of that evolving brain, everything seemed to fall into place for the first time in my life.
And I had no explanation for why fantasizing, you know, that reading science fiction had produced all those, convinced all those scientists to become, you know, a person to become scientists and so on.
I think we're looking at a tremendous discovery here.
And so, at La Crosse, Mike Glickson, the fan guest of honor, spoke on the subject, now folks, he says, you are not slants, he said.
We're going to face that reality.
Let's face it forever, and so on.
And then I got up and said, folks, you are slants.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much, Van.
There's a strange breed of creature in the room, easily recognized by its hair foliage.
There's a strange breed of creature that likes to run conventions.
You know who you are.
And one of them we've chosen as our fan guest of honor.
Now, we are eternally grateful to Mary for many things.
One of the most important is that she made us the easiest choice we ever had for a fan guest of honor.
About a week after last year's convention, we were holding a post mortem meeting and she said, bye.
And went to the bar to get a drink.
And while she was gone, we voted and told her by the time she got back.
So we're grateful for making that simple on us.
However, we are not grateful for the fact that it means we had to replace her.
Fortunately, we got someone who did a good job.
But I had envisioned spending this conclave, conclave four, sitting out there.
Yeah, someone chickened out on me.
So one thing that I want to introduce Mary, and I've known Mary for two or three years now.
And I don't know what to say here.
Mary and I think alike on running conventions.
It's not that you get to stand up in front of people like I do here.
It's not that you get your name splashed around the program book or something like that.
The real good thing, at least as far as she and I are concerned, on running a convention is that it works.
That when you sit up here at the head table this time of night, as far as the chairman and the vice chairman are concerned,
the convention has worked.
That kind of thing is a good feeling, and we wanted to reward someone publicly for putting out that kind of good feeling.
Here's Mary Mueller.
I wore my camouflage tonight.
When I was at Iqtikon two weeks ago, I asked Bill Bowers for some ideas, because I'm really nervous, you guys.
I really am. It's real nerve-racking to be up here, and you're waiting, and you're waiting.
All of a sudden, Stevie gets up and says wonderful things about you, and everybody says wonderful things to you.
And it's really a great feeling, but there are feathers all over back here.
You would not believe. It's been shedding like crazy.
But anyway, this afternoon, well, when I get in last night, I said, how would you like to chair a panel tomorrow?
And I said, oh, what's the topic? Oh, you pick it.
So the Bill and Barry show actually happened today, but it was the Bill, Barry and Mary show, and I got some ideas for my speech.
I decided I didn't want to do a burning issue speech, but rather do a gash-wow, because I really love everybody.
I mean, I may not know all your faces, but I sure as hell know all your names.
So anyway, one of the topics for speech was Larry Niven's indebtedness to the schmooze for the band or snatch.
Somebody had spaceships on their socks.
Why am I in fandom because of you wonderful, crazy people?
I have a schmooze picture here.
If I'm dying at the microphone, pour water.
And in conclusion, I'd like to say I love you all, and thanks for having me, and thanks for being so wonderful.
And I hope to see your face and your name across the registration desk sometime in the future.
So take care, and I love you.
Applause
One of the other neat things about running conventions is that you get to give away things.
And Tulio, you're here? Yes.
Tulio Prone has the first of the things that are being given away.
This is not from the convention. This is from Tulio, to Van.
We had a few seconds to speak earlier in the day, but this is for you.
This is one of our ray guns. Some of you have obviously seen us in the huckster room.
And those of you who haven't, American.
It's perfectly safe.
As you know, all weapon shops guns can only be used in self-defense.
Now, we've been working on ray guns.
I've been doing it for about three years, and some of my partners have been with me for almost two and a half.
And it's a nice development that we've been able to do as well as we have.
And I must admit that the man sitting next to me has been the inspiration.
It's been a long time between when I first had the idea of trying to make ray guns and selling them to fandom,
and the time I've actually been able to do it.
But at the very beginning, it was the weapon shops of Isher that set me off.
So we call ourselves now the weapon shops of Isher Enterprise, if you want to be formal about it.
And we decided this would be a good occasion to show our appreciation to our, well, namesake, if not actual founder.
We had the bad taste of not doing it until now, but to make up for it, we did a little special effort on this one.
This one has sound as well as light on it.
And for those of you who have been complaining, how come they don't make any noise?
And after the speech or whatever, I'll give you a little explanation on how to do all the secret things to it.
I do want to say thank you very much, and I certainly appreciate that they are using the name.
I mean, I'm serious about that because I would never have done it.
And they have my permission, all here that word, that statement here and now.
I think this is a beautiful job here.
My 90% share of the...
It does not have to be paid in this lifetime.
Thank you.
So, well, it's a...
Just look at that.
Isn't that a beautiful instrument?
I don't think that they could have been better in 7,000 years from now when the weapon shops were in full flower.
And I'm delighted to have someone had this time trip system bring one of them back here.
And I shall carry it here on.
Carry it.
Thank you, Helen.
Thank you.
And stop by later and I'll tell you how to change the battery now.
Nobody wants to hear stories about delays.
So we're not going to tell you one.
We'll just simply tell you that there was a delay and the gift that we had planned to give in from the convention didn't quite get finished in time.
So it's not done yet.
Therefore, we are giving a sort of an IOU.
These are copies number one and two of the Enchanted Village fan short story, beautifully illustrated by Joan Wood.
It's a special limited edition.
At this point it's available only here and at LossCon.
Copy is number one and two.
We are giving the van.
We are going to take copy number one and have it hard bound and it will be shipped to you later.
Come on.
Now, now to give something to the other guest of honor.
When we sat down to think about what to give, we were kind of dumbfounded.
The first suggestion that everyone went along with was brass knuckles.
Wait a minute, you've been promising me those brass knuckles for two years.
And we still haven't got them.
The people who didn't come through know who they are.
But we can't threaten them because they still have the brass knuckles.
So Susie is going to present the alternative.
It's not fair because Steve promised me she'd have something delicate in her hand so that she couldn't hit me.
Alright.
They really didn't want to leave me with very much time at this microphone because they were afraid that I'd take over and make all sorts of atrocious puns.
But I took one look at Steve and the fear of God come upon me.
So I decided to be good.
Go ahead.
Alright. They decided that there was only one person who could really present this gift to Mary with all the respect and admiration that she really deserves.
It's a magazine by Heavy Metals. It's called Candace at Sea.
I just hope that my remarks haven't been too offshore.
And I won't sweep her away to sea with this.
Who's got a black night's marker?
Alright.
Traditionally these gifts have sort of come in threes.
One to our pro guest of honor, one to our feign guest of honor, and one to somebody we love. Special person.
This year the special gift goes to Tom Barbour.
Stand up, Tom.
Tom, along with Larry, was one of the founding members of Waldo.
He was the chairman of Conclaves 1 and 2.
He's been my friend for a long time. He's one of the very first people I met when I moved here.
Do you realize how confused anyone listening to this tape is going to be?
He's been a good friend of mine for a long time.
And when we were fishing around we said, gee, we need another gift. And the first person I thought of was Tom.
So, from all of us, Tom.
For this giant paper wand, I wish to think...
Oh!
Dragon mug. Very, very nice.
Thank you from the bottom of my heart.
Okay, last, ta-da! Last, and maybe least, I don't know.
Pardon? I've already plugged it. I'm not going to plug it again.
Hopefully not least, George tells me that I am to leave space in this presentation for a surprise. George?
Can I sit down?
Yes, you can.
Good. You can sit down.
I'm reduced in size.
Everybody, I'm sure, is very much appreciates what Steve has done for this convention and everything else.
And they're aware of his many talents.
But not to people know about a major contribution that he's made to fandom.
He probably doesn't remember it.
He's not going to want to be reminded of the incident, but too bad.
My very first con ever was Marcon.
And I went up to the Philk singing room. I didn't know they called it Philk singing, but...
And there was this very handsome and wonderfully talented young man singing the most incredible songs I've ever heard in my life.
The clip was there.
And I said, I've got to hear this guy again. And that's why I went to my second con.
I even got to meet him.
When he hit me in the shoulder with a jar of mustard.
It didn't hurt. It didn't stain. It didn't bother me at all.
But that didn't prevent me from embarrassing him in front of at least 40 people by yelling,
A. Steve, you owe me for the mustard.
And neglecting to explain that it was a perfectly harmless incident.
There are at least three people wandering around in the world who think it's a really kinky version of Lyme Jello fandom.
But...
It's harmless. He's a gentleman. He's wonderful.
But because I enjoy his Philking and because he is a great guy and because mustard fandom is now in direct competition with great fandom,
we have for him as a gift, Dijon type mustard, extra strong.
And for those of you who are up on your fairy tales, it's decorated with the Bremantown musicians.
And I've heard recently that if a fan does something once, it's a tradition.
If they do it twice, it's a sacred tradition.
I think I've just made a sacred tradition of embarrassing Steve in public.
This does not obligate him to sing God's Own Drunk.
I won't be coming home tonight.
And neither will she.
Okay, unless someone has a final announcement, we are going to declare the banquet officially closed.
Alright, all staff and gophers in here, we're going to switch over to the auction.
Is Resty here? I damn well hope so. He's auctioneering.
Oh yes, about the wine.
All you people who bought wine, come and see me or I'll come and see you.